v0.8.1
======

New Features in v0.8.1
----------------------

Added Python 3.14 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Contributed in `PR #24 <https://github.com/gchq/ConcourseTools/pull/24>`_ by `gchqdev227 <https://github.com/gchqdev227>`_


Added official support for Python 3.14 in Concourse Tools.


Updated Contribution Guide
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Contributed in `PR #23 <https://github.com/gchq/ConcourseTools/pull/23>`_ by `gchqdev227 <https://github.com/gchqdev227>`_


Added clearer guidance on style in ``CONTRIBUTING.md``. New Pre-commit hooks were also added:

* ``autopep8`` for automatically formatting the code to match PEP-8. This hook was chosen specifically to minimise
  changes to the current codebase, as opposed to common alternatives such as Black.
* ``double-string-fixer`` for converting all single-quote strings to double-quotes. This is a local hook adapted from
  the `frequently used hook that does the opposite <https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit-hooks/tree/main#double-quote-string-fixer>`_.
* ``yamlfmt`` for consistent formatting of YAML files.


Documentation is now built with Python 3.13
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Contributed in `PR #29 <https://github.com/gchq/ConcourseTools/pull/29>`_ by `gchqdev227 <https://github.com/gchqdev227>`_


Sphinx documentation is now built with Python 3.13, upgrading from version 3.12.


Fixed in v0.8.1
---------------

Pinned Mock Concourse Resource Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Contributed in `PR #33 <https://github.com/gchq/ConcourseTools/pull/33>`_ by `gchqdev227 <https://github.com/gchqdev227>`_


The tests use the ``concourse/mock-resource`` Docker image in order to evaluate the ``DockerTestResourceWrapper`` and
``DockerConversionTestResourceWrapper`` classes. Minor changes in the behaviour of this image meant properly pinning
the tag of this image from the implicit ``latest`` to ``0.14.1-20250809``, to ensure reproducibility.


Removed in v0.8.1
-----------------

Removed Python 3.9 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Contributed in `PR #35 <https://github.com/gchq/ConcourseTools/pull/35>`_ by `gchqdev227 <https://github.com/gchqdev227>`_


Removed all Python 3.9 support. This is in line with the official
`end-of-life <https://devguide.python.org/versions/#unsupported-versions>`_ for Python 3.9.
